Physics and the
Explanation of Life
Eugene P. Wigne
https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00708653

sci-hub.tw/10.1007/bf00708653

Summary: 
written by:@tahajamal 1900290110115
The author starts of by giving us an introduction of the paper and tells us that he is a physicist and tells us exactly why he is writing a paper on explanation of life.He gives various excuses as to why he is putting forward someideas without a solid foundational proofs.
The author then goes on to tell us a bit of history by starting to take up a prominent figure Descartes who also wanted to explain the basis of life.He tells us that Descartes accepts the thought of conciousness as a primary concept.He states that Descartes was also the first to recognize the nerves as transmitters of sensations and the brain as the depository of our emotions and our memory.
He said that Descartes stated the brain is the body's link to the soul. The author talks about a successor of Descartes known as Malebranche who quoted,"Thus dogs, cats, and the other animals, have no intelligence, no soul in the sense in which this concept is usually understood. They eat without pleasure, cry without pain, grow without knowing this. They have no desires and no knowledge." then the  author also gives us an example of a wasp to tell us how the animals have low conciousness than us. Then the author takes up Thomas Huxley who argued on the points made by Descartes the author later gives some jstification of his statements too.At last the author gives us an example of the Gestaltslehre of
Wertheimer, K~3hler, and others all of those were of the point if view that  we do not obtain a vivid picture of man by just describing his bones and muscles and how they are attached to each other but the author argues that  it is possible to describe the functioning of man's organs without answering the question of the relation between his body and soul, his emotions and his physical constitution, his volition and his movements. 
Then the author tells us about the problem from a physics point of view. He tells us about various comparisons bteween psychology and physics and hoe both are connected in unusual ways.
Then the author talks about  the physicist's view of the relation between body and mind.
The author presents his first alternative of the problem and tries to define life aas it is by using conventional physics laws but then he says that to define life the laws of physics have to be modifies drastically and therefore he presents his second alternative and say that life modifies the laws valid for inanimate object which the author considers to be closer to truth.
At th ened of the paper during writing the conclusion of paper the author ends by questioning many laws of physics and the inability of human to reach a conclusion  just as to what is the meaning of life.

The author argues that the laws we use at the moment have to completed much further to be able to define and successfully understand conciousness which drives us.The author tells us that the physics laws we use right now can only define some physical aspects and tells us that we have miles to go before we are able to successfully understand our conciousness.